Collection
- Player must have a reason for obtaining each items
Progession
- Player must have a clear path of progression to greater abilities or new capacities
Threat
- Player must face threats
- Progression reduces threats

!!!
Timers

Community:
!!! Guide Pages (players joined/players left, social elements, guide power)


“I don’t usually like MMOs. I prefer my experiences to be crafted by professional game designers rather than by other players.” -managing community

!!! Guide Structure (Democracy, dictatorship, etc)

>after executing the mechanic, the player needs to be given a reason to come back

"Unlike single player games, PSW games are never beaten. That is, a player should not reach a state in which the player feels there is no further goal to reach. Instead, the content of the game should be reusable. Since players return to the world often, good game design provides a method of entertainment that does not usually rely on novelty."

"When hundreds to thousands of users simultaneously share a space, they create a virtual society. Because many of the users will be returning and interacting again, then not only is the game persistent, but the social relationships are persistent. Over time these relationships solidify into social organizations, which constitute a society. Whether or not the designers plan on it, this society will be a huge factor in the success or failure of the game."

Because the user' data persists over playing sessions for an indefinite term, playing a PSW game is sometimes compared to an investment. The items and attributes that define the status of the player constitute the player' assets. Accumulating the value of these assets encourages customer renewal, since a strategic player makes a decision to participate based on the expected return on investment (ROI). By exhaustively collecting data on the game and sharing analysis to develop a kind of collective intelligence, the player population can assess the ROI with a fine degree of accuracy.

Asynchronous Interaction
The primary activity on the Internet is e-mail, which is a form of asynchronous communication. PSW games also offer the opportunity for asynchronous interaction. As defined, the game continues while the player is disconnected. Yet, the game may also continue to affect the status of the player while not connected. This can be incorporated as a feature. For example, in Shattered Galaxies, offline player territories may change ownership. In Ultima Online, offline players may sell goods

Groups:
Most PSW games, have their primary method of cooperation be via attacking monsters. As an interesting anthropological note, players usually refer to this part of play as "hunting", and many anthropologists believe that human cooperation evolved as a means of hunting large animals.

Rituals
As in real world societies, rituals exist to demarcate the stages of life and degrees of status in the persistent game. New players become assimilated into the community. Many PSW games have features beyond help files that organize experienced members to become mentors to newer players. In Asheron' Call, one joins an allegiance by gaining a specific mentor. In Dark Ages: Online Roleplaying, one gains a class by having a player in that class guide the new player.

Rituals can also be important at a higher meta-level. There are rituals to maintain an organization, which can demarcate significant events in the life of a user or the organization' operation. As an example, Underlight' users have new member induction ceremonies.

(WoW mount)

Communication
Groups
Organizations
Rituals
Events
Political Systems

Just as persistence of users creates a society, a society creates politics, which is the maintenance or disruption of power and privileges that a social organization holds over its members and nonmembers. Political systems of some sort are an unavoidable consequence of a persistent society.

In a healthy political system within the game, players accept the authority of those with political power. They may disagree with or antagonize public figures, yet they adhere to the consensus of fair politics and the rules of the political game as it is.  (why? long term stability?)

From a player organization point of view, game developers can be seen as a power structure within the game' political system.

Today' MMPs design around community relations. Developers leverage guilds
s
and other organizations for service efficiency in designing manageable persistent worlds. Community relations personnel will often facilitate in-game society and politics by speaking with alliance, guild, or organization leaders. Communications could range from organizing events, to discussing upcoming planning changes or additions to the world. When problems arise, community relations staff will be the intermediaries to explain the problems and/or collect customer feedback on possible fixes.

If community relations can work with the wizard guild leaders, to persuade them why an upcoming change is good for the game as a whole, those guild leaders can be very useful in talking to other members of their guild and passing the word along, to prevent player dissatisfaction. In other words, the in-game political power that those leaders have acquired, can be useful to the game developers when controversial changes are needed.

Political systems can also be incorporated as part of game design. For a few
examples: A Tale in the Desert implemented several ritual features for the
passage of laws and acquiring political offices. Achaea implemented city and
guild wars, and multiple types of structures of government. Lineage implemented sieges and taxation. Shattered Galaxy implemented factional wars. And Dark Ages: Online Roleplaying has both cooperative and competitive political features, such as voting, taking public office, promotion, demotion, and player-versus- player political attacks.


