Enemy ideas:

Behaviours:

Attacks:
Jump at player, damage on contact
Throw projectiles
Shoot
Punch (needs skeletal animations)
Pause, blink, explode
ranged grab-attack (like mortal kombat scoprion)
paralysis attack
DoT projectile (acid burn)

Motion:
Jump
wander
hide
Fly

Defense:
Reflect laser

Monster that always tries to move out of player fulcrum
When not in player fulcrum, moves towards player

Monster that calls on other monsters to attack

Monster that occupies a single empty block
When player digs to it, it bites or blows up

Monster that latches to cave ceilings, dropping down to hurt player with contact damage

Monster that lurks in caves, approaching player for contact damage when in range (light/dark needed to be effective) 

Monsters that move in packs (2-5), ignoring player unless it is disturbed (can also do some passive thing like pick up item particles)

Monsters that steal from the player (see zelda: like-like, and the stupid birds in majora's mask)

Landmine type monster (also weapon)

Turret type enemy (immobile, ranged damage)

very large mob that steps on player

Player Combat:
Melee should do knock back



<Kaprekar> i've got a wild idea for a mob
<Kaprekar> a rare spawn, starts off neutral. stalks a player if it finds one. if the player does not attack, the mob wont attack. if the player drops food or something and backs off (or some friendly action), it will befriend the player
* Sakani (~Niblet@50-104-51-36.prtg.in.frontiernet.net) has joined #gnomescroll
<Kaprekar> the more good you do, the more it likes you, and eventually it will protect you
<Kaprekar> or if you try to chase after it at first, it will run away. attack it and it will hide, and eventually hunt you down if you keep threatening it

then there are mobs that help the player in various ways

=========
Mob behaviour planning guidelines:
Mobs have several stages of behaviour, these are:

Init    -- how is it initialized
Idle/Passive    -- what does it do when it is not aggroed

Aggro_init -- what causes mod to aggro
Aggro   -- what does the mob begin doing after aggro_init
Deaggro -- what does the mob do when it deaggros (will go back to idle, but does it do anything special to get back to idle?)

Attack player   -- how does it attack the player
Player attacks  -- how does it respond to a player attack (in various states, if different; i.e. if it is far away from the player, does it run, but close, aggro)
Player flees    -- how does it respond to a player fleeing (does it chase, how far/long etc)

For example, the blue bombs:

Init
    Place on any surface block
Idle
    Nothing (they should wander, but dont)
Aggro_init
    player in range; player does damage
Aggro
    Face and Move to player, for max 10 seconds
Deaggro
    Stop, go back to idle (nothing)
Attack player
    Move close to player, explode
Player attacks
    take damage as normal
Player flees
    Chase, for max 10 seconds

And, the red bots:

Init
    Created by spawner, Place on surface block nearby
Idle
    Choose a destination +/- range(0,10) in x,y, move to it, repeat
Aggro_init
    player in range
Aggro
    Stop and face player, shoot
Deaggro
    Immediately go back to idle
Attack player
    stand, facing player, shooting
Player attacks
    take damage as normal
Player flees
    deaggro, dont chase

=========


--------
FIRST NEW MOB:

Minecraft silverfish-like thing
ankle biters

a couple hide underground near minerals or wherever
when player breaches some radius, they emit from the ground (noise + raise up animation for ~1second)
then they crawl to the player
if in range, bite for small dmg every N ticks


Do the cluster/breach version first:

Put them at any surface block - 1;
In groups of 3-8

Each group needs an encapsulator, which manages them collectively
Placing them, de/activating them.
This encapsulator also detect player radius breach

ANKLE BITER -- PROXIMITY ACTIVATE

Init
    Created by abstract mob placer. Placed inside a block that is open to air. Can be placed in the wall or the floor
Idle
    Do nothing. remain underground
Aggro_init
    Player enter radius determined by abstract mob placer
Aggro
    Raise from the ground. Face player. begin moving to player
Deaggro
    go back to home block. if home block does not exist, find new one. if none found, die.
Attack player
    Bite
Player attacks
    Take damage; knock back applies for melee.
Player flees
    Chase, until reaching max distance from abstract mob placer, then return.

ABSTRACT PROXIMITY ANKLE BITER SPAWNER (not a mob)
spawns inside a block near ore.
spawn all children on init
if its source block is destroyed, pick one nearby. if none found nearby (some range), die.
if all children are dead, die.
regenerate children slowly over time, only when not activated by players.
manage proximity checks for agents entering range
activate children when agent enters range
keeps list of child ids and associated type

