<Zahz> HaltingState: this channel is not dead. It is just sleepy
<wirehack7> yeah. Cause minecraft is nothing really new
<wirehack7> new content is really slowly coming
<Zahz> yeah, but I think this channel will get a bit more quiet now

<Cell> "there are not enough items and content"
<Cell> is my problem with minecraft. I got bored. 

‎"people who whine about the graphics are idiots. Games are about gameplay not graphics...and Minecraft lacks gameplay." -metacritic 

‎"Minecraft is certainly a revolutionary game having rocketed the procedurally-generated voxel based world to a place in history. However, it hasn't progressed past its first steps."

‎"There is just so much potential in a voxel engine and Minecraft hasn't even begun to tap it. It's just a matter of time before someone else comes along with a better product because Minecraft simply doesn't deliver." -metacritic

"When I first found it, it was still in alpha and very few people were playing it. I had fun building it an I eventually bought it for the singleplayer. When I first bought it I became very addicted to the singleplayer but after I week, I had a huge mine, tons of supplies...and for what? I was the only person I this land with some monsters that attack you every so often. After this I just stopped playing SP because I grew so tired of just building without a purpose. Then Minecrafts popularity shot up. All my friends bought it and I created a multiplayer server. After about two weeks of building a huge town with my friends I grew bored once again."

‎"By this time Minecraft was huge, Notch was rich, and everyone was playing this game. Notch created his own company and started hiring people. This is where it goes downhill. Mojang became very lazy and started releasing updates every blue moon. These updates generally did not add that much, and most of the major content they released through updates were already stuff done a lot better by modders. "

Minecraft is actually quite a fun experience for a while, a fairly short while and it is by no means a game.

"While this game is fun at first, it quickly loses it's steam. The developers don't take the game seriously, they would rather sit around in the office all day, playing games, promising features they never deliver on. It would be great to see a serious developer who isn't full of themselves take this game on and make it into something really great."

"For the past year of those 2 years, Mojang has purely been ripping off ideas from Terraria and various user mods and implementing them in a worse way."

Whatever you choose, it's your game and even if you don't like building, you can for example go and look for dungeons, and vice versa...Notch's decision to make it more RPG like than sandbox like. Yeah, you still can ignore villages and strongholds and keep building, but still it makes me feel like I'm playing incomplete Diablo clone than 100% complete, full and enjoyable sandbox game.


