> Gifting Friends: real money, rate limited
> Rare for money currency and plentifull currency
> "Fuel"/items that generate reoccuring revenue

!!!
Users cannot buy items for themselves, can only buy items for other users.  Cooperation/team build, blue prints

!!!
Fertilizer for plants that causes instagrow.  Removing timers is best seller in monster world.

Customization is not as large revenue share for monster world as timer cooldowns.

!!! Chance Box (for blue prints)

!!! (end game PvP)
Every high ARPU and high revenue game on Kongregate
has a strongly social and competitive end-game.
Common features (mix and match)
- Guilds/leagues
- Guild warfare or leaderboards
- PvP (either synchronous and asynchronous)
- Visible status & character progression
- Guilds/leagues (it bears repeating)

#1 Make sure players can spend $1,000+
–  If you make a fun game someone will want to spend an infinite
amount. Don’t create a situation in which spending is capped by
availability or utility.
#2 Don’t underprice
–  There is very little price elasticity below $5. It’s an emotional decision
to spend for progress and status, focus on that.
–  Use intro paid currency, first time buyer packages & deals to get
people into the habit of purchase
–  Higher prices allow for sales & special events later


Daily Active users to monthly active users is a good measure of engagement.

Lens:
add features that enable users to spend money on other users

!!!
Sulake has reported5 that 90% of the Habbo visitors don’t pay. However, this doesn’t
mean that these non-paying visitors are not interested in Habbo furniture. Based on pre-
liminary interviews and fansite stories we had got the impression that it is possible to
have nice rooms and make careers in Habbo without spending money, for instance by
trading or receiving gifts. Our survey showed that a large part of the visitors get furniture
through donations, competitions, or as rewards for favours. Of the 26%6 (2557) who said
that they don’t buy anything, 57% (1451) still receives furniture donations, 48% (1229)
trades furniture, and 31% (782) gets furniture items as pay for “work” in Habbo.
