!!!
To succeed in EQ you need to form relationships with people you can trust. The game does a wonderful job of forcing people in this situation. Real life rarely offers this opportunity as technological advances mean we have little reliance on others and individuals are rarely thrown into life-or-death situations. [male, 29]



There are 13 possible payouts ranging from 1:1 to 2,400:1. The 1:1 payout comes every 8 plays. The 5:1 payout comes every 33 plays, whereas the 2:1 payout comes every 600 plays. Most players assume the likelihood increases proportionate to the payout. The one midsize payout that is designed to give the player a thrill is the 80:1 payout. It is programmed to occur an average of once every 219 plays

In addition to these auditory and visual rewards, there are also rewards of a social nature. Casinos provide a unique form of positive reinforcement called ‘hand pays.’ Casinos have a cutoff amount for jackpot wins which must be paid to the gambler in cash by hand by a casino attendant. When a player wins the cutoff amount or more, the machine enters a ‘hold mode’ and the machine’s lights flash and sirens sound. At this time, players often receive peer praise from their fellow gamblers.After a minute or two, an attendant arrives and pays the gambler the winning amount in cash.The machine then returns to normal play.

The frequency of positive reinforcement (small wins) affects machine choice in slot machine play [16], with a preference for regular small wins, although the overall average percentage payback or return rate is also important [17]. With modern slot machine games, players often win ‘something’ on one-third of their spins, on average. This high frequency also helps to disguise loss [16]. Immediacy of some form of reward is also important: players play more games when rewarded immediately than with a delayed response [18].It is the combination of a high frequency of rewards, the results of the bet, and the immediacy of the rewards that contribute to a game’s addictiveness, argues Griffiths

The casino industry uses near misses to increase the entertainment value of the games, and regulators allow the intentional programming of near misses by the manufacturers. The fact that near misses increase the entertainment value of the games has been proven by problem gambling researchers who have shown that near misses increase the number of games played [21]. If you walk around a casino floor you will see that players rarely react to the frequently occurring small wins but they often be seen reacting to near misses with comments such as ‘aw shucks’ coupled with physical reactions such as snapping their fingers. The ratio of 12:1 of near misses being designed into the games versus near misses that happening by chance alone has been arrived at by slot machine game designers over many years and this can be used as a guideline for casual game designers – if there were too many near misses then players would grow accustomed to the near misses and thus the near misses would not increase the entertainment value of the game.The 12:1 ratio seems to be the ‘sweet spot’ regarding how many near misses will make the game most entertaining.

With near misses, argues King et al [1], the players are not constantly losing, but constantly ‘nearly winning’

A slot machine loss disguised as a win (LDW) is a play in which the player ‘wins’ but receives a payout amount of money less than that of the amount wagered, hence actually losing on the wager [22]. So for example, a gambler might wager $2 on a play and win back 50 cents. The gambler is actually losing $1.50, but is given the reinforcement cues (the auditory and visual rewards) of a win. Physiologically, gamblers respond as if they are winning when they are, in actuality, not winning at all [22].

These losses disguised as wins are the consequence of allowing players to wager on multiple lines on one spin.For example, a player may wager 25 cents on each of 15 lines for a total wager of $3.75. That player may win $1 on one line and 75 cents on another line for a total ‘win’ of $1.75.The player will experience the winning graphics and winning sounds although they have just lost $2.00 in a six-second spin. On modern slot machines, the number of LDWs is often more than the number of regular wins.

The research is clear that players physiologically experience LDWs and regular wins identically [22].Thus, even while taking money from the gambler, the slot machine game designers have figured out how to reward the player. This technique may be particularly appropriate for casual games.

There is strong evidence that gamblers who are given an illusion of control in a gambling game will value their chances higher than those who feel they have no control. This is true even when the gambler understands that the outcome of the game is completely random.


